# BrushUp! Mod Support Texture Generator

Made for [I_Am_Merp's](https://twitter.com/i_am_merp) [Brush Up! Resource Pack](https://modrinth.com/resourcepack/brush-up/)

Creates support for Fences, Fence Gates, Pressure Plates and Buttons (and more soon, like signs) for other mods' wood variants using just that mod's plank texture (or whatever you so desire).

## Assumptions

This generator works on a couple of mechanics and assumptions:

- The generator assumes that the texture is 16x16. I don't feel like adding support for animated / larger textures, that sounds exhausting
- The generator assumes that the mod you're adding support for uses _logical_ naming for wood variants, i.e. minecraft uses `minecraft:oak_fence_gate`, so it expects the mod uses form `modid:material_fence_gate`, etc.. If a mod does something else then some manual renaming will be required for the output. For windows users I strongly suggest using [PowerToys' PowerRename](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/powertoys/powerrename) and a scoche of Regular Expression
- The generator assumes that the mod you're adding support for uses the same block model for the inventory model. You'll see that some mods like Ecologics override the inventory model so you may have to do this as well using the block model generated as an output in this project. I may soon add support for this myself so you don't have to 😉
- The generator scans the (included, but empty) `textures` directory, which is expected to be laid out like so:
  ```
  PROJECT ROOT
  └── textures
      ├── MODID_1 # some mod you want to add support for, filled with the png textures for each plank
      │   ├── material_1_planks.png
      │   ├── material_2_planks.png
      │   └── material_3_planks.png
      └── MODID_2 # some other mod you want to add support for
          ├── material_4_planks.png
          ├── material_5_planks.png
          └── material_6_planks.png
  ```
- The texture is generated by overlaying (yes, I know, ack - but also within all my testing it worked the best) a color, which is derived from an average of four different metrics:

  1. The color in the very center of the texture
  2. The average color, generated by taking the average of every pixel's Red, Green & Blue value
  3. The _most_ dominant color in the texture, generated using K-Means clustering
  4. The _least_ dominant color in the texture, generated using K-Means clustering

- As you can imagine, dynamically generated textures based off of color won't always be perfect - namely, some textures like [Ecologic's Flowering Azalea Planks](https://dv2ls.com/0C65y1qRl1) are too complex to generate programmatically. As such, the `overrides` folder at the top-level of the project is used to override any resulting generated textures with hand made ones that I've included, and you can add on to. It uses the exact same directory structure that the `textures` directory uses (see above). Sample Aseprite `.ase` files have been included, as well as hand-made overrides for the Ecologics Mod and Regions Unexplored.

## Setup

### Requires Python 3.10 or Greater

Set up using the included `requirements.txt` and your method of choice. For the easiest setup, install Python 3.10 and then run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage

Run with `python generate.py`. Generated textures, models and blockstates will be placed in the `out/assets` directory. You can take the `assets` folder and pull it directly into your own resource pack entirely.
